You may have already heard of data stores such as Apache Cassandra,
Apache HBase, or Apache Kafka.
All three of these data stores utilize log structured storage to maintain state.
Apache Cassandra and HBase are not the focus of this course,
are both data stores that surface SQ-like interfaces,
and are appropriate for working with massive datasets.
Both of these data stores are wide used across the industry.
Under the SQL for side,
these data stores use append only logs to store and coordinate data across nodes.
In terms of functionality,
these data stores look and feel more familiar to a database such as PostgreSQL or MySQL,
but at a much larger scale.
It's also worth noting that Apache HBase and
Cassandra or both tend to be used in batch processing systems.
Apache Kafka on the other hand is a message queue system
based on the concept of launch structure append-only storage.
Kafka may appear externally similar to tools like rather on queue,
acted on queue, but it is based on a different storage and scaling mechanism.